Welcome back in in the previous lesson we looked at session storage and we found that session storage
might not be the best alternative even though it will just work you'd only work within the current session.
So let's update the session storage to local storage and that way we're able to store that cart information
for a longer period of time.
And let's make sure that they're all updated so we don't have any of the session storage is still lingering.
So that's always a good idea to go try that out.
And now when I refresh the page I should still see that.
So the one thing that I am missing is that I'm actually not putting the cart contents less thing that
I do need to do is I need to put the cart contents so that in refresh the page and this time when I
refresh.
We're actually not seeing any difference because it's just refreshing and it's all there within the
local storage.
So we're actually we saw that we were able to build out our cart contents and we're able to loop through
it and we did notice that there was a few things that we do need to take care of and one of them is
the quantity.
So we don't want to actually store those quantities within the card itself.
So we want to update them.
We don't want any duplicates with the IDs within the card itself.
We want to have a quantity value instead of having these duplicates.
So we need to make an update and we need to do that within the part where we're updating the cart so
we're adding it to the cart because this is where we're determining the quantity and so on.
So let's add this in and make this update in order to do this we need to actually check to see if value
is in the card itself and if it's in the cart then we know that we need to update the quantity instead
of adding another item into the array.
And if it's not in the cart then we know that we just simply push it into the array.
So let's set up a variable that's going to work within the function and we're just going to call it
item in CART.
So this is going to be by default such false
and next we need to loop through all of the values that are available in order to check to see if that
ID is in the cart.
So let's loop through and we saw what we could do that earlier.
So let's just copy this loop here and I'm going to copy that part there so we can loop through all the
values in the shopping cart and we're going to do a quick check to see if the the ID is equal to
the item in full ID so check to see if these are equal.
And if they are then we know we need to update the cart quantity.
So instead of doing quantity of one we can update that quantity to whatever quantity is available already.
So let's take
and we're going to take the value of the quantity because this is the current value that's within the
item in the array and we saw earlier how the relationship between the items so we can update that and
that will actually update within the cart and we can start to parse integer.
So same thing as we entered the number.
So same idea.
So let's just make sure that they're both numeric.
So we can parse IMT.
So I'm just showing you that there is a variety of different ways
and basically this is just simply adding the one value to it because we're picking up that value of
one.
But in case this was two or three coming from the cart that would also update there so that way it's
a little bit more dynamic.
And next when we're taking the value of item in the cart we need to say that it's true that it was in
there.
So basically that means that we don't need to add it into the array.
So we're checking to see if the value is in the cart and if it's
not in the card that's when we're going to add it into the array and the rest of it should be the same.
So let's just make sure that everything works properly.
So let's refresh it and we're adding items into the card and we see now we're actually updating quantities
instead of those items.
So we're we're cleaning that up and we're only adding that one item into our array.
So if we open up console and we'll take a look at our shopping cart unfortunately we still have a number
of items within that array because it's only at this point that we're updating the quantity but we see
that as we're adding updating all of those quantities.
So what we ultimately want to do is we want to remove those duplicates which we want to actually have
in our working version because we're only setting it too because we didn't have this part before that's
where we're able to add in all those extra values.
So we do need a way to remove items from the array.
So the next lesson I'll show you how to do that.
So before we end this lesson I still want to update this.
So that actually shows all of this information that's within the shopping cart.
I want to put it here within the visual sopping cart here so not in the console that we can actually
see it so the user can see the updates the quantity and the price and all of that.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and add in the rest of the columns within this table so
that we can actually see all of those values that are being held.
So that's the quantity and also the details and the cost of each item.
And then also the subtotal maybe at the end and then also we are also grabbing and we're building out
this total.
So we need to add in the total here as we're putting that to male.
So when you to pause the video and make those updates to the script and I'll show you the solution coming
up.
So we had an opportunity to give that a go to make those updates.
So let's basically let's add in and let's build out our table.
So let's start with T R and T H.
And for the table heading we're just going to have the item and I want to do a bunch of th's here.
So this one can be quantity
so quantity and next do another column for
another column for the cost.
So this is the cost of each item.
We can also do another column for the ID.
So whatever that ID value is for the item and if you have other items within your within your description
you can easily add those in as columns because it's just a matter of just putting that information out.
And then also to add and one for options.
So this is where we can do a remove or if we want to update it we can add a bunch of our options there.
So now let's refresh it.
So now we've got more of a table type format.
I want to add a little bit of styling as well so we can apply some styling we can better see the table
contents TT's and so do text align and center align that do a border so pick a solid block.
Or maybe we're not going to do block.
So maybe do it a little bit later and padding.
And of course you can style this however you want.
Whatever makes sense for you.
So T-H and do the text align center align the text and make the font size bigger for these ones because
these are these are the headings so that we can learn more so that they stand out a little bit more.
So there we go.
So we've got our basic shopping cart and also made out in a border around those ones as well.
So let's refresh it.
And now we need to update our shopping cart.
So this was being dynamically output and generated and we saw that we can do it within these cells.
So the first one is the item and I didn't leave a second space for the details so I was going to have
the details there.
So we can add in details like that and then we had a number of other cells.
So let's build those out.
So it's out in those cells now.
And it's going to do a quick one here so that I can do a bunch of them so the first one was quantity.
So it was cue to you why.
Next one was cost
so was the cost of the value of the item next was the ID fee ID and then after that we had the subtotal.
And then lastly we had some options so leave the options now.
At the moment we're just going to leave them blank and this is where we're going to add in or remove
or whatever else.
So let's see.
So we do have a problem there with the cost Siletz because I believe I had called it price not cost
because it was price over here.
So let's update that
and refresh.
So we've got the cost we've got the subtotal we've got our options.
And then the last part was that we wanted to update that total area.
So I know that we're looking for that console as well.
And just over here.
So just before we close off let's add in one last roll and then in this roll let's do a table spat and
we'll do a call spam and we'll spam all six columns span of six.
And then within here we can place the table contents the total contents the total value.
So let's just do a total and add in a value for the total sum total which is going to be total.
So let's try that and refresh it.
So there's our total.
So one of the thing that is missing as well is that we're not it doesn't look like a number format.
So we you need to build out a function in order to do that.
So let's do that really quickly so I'm going to just add in a function and I'm going to call it
f money to format it as a money format and we'll take a value in.
So whatever value that we pass in we're going to return it within a number a money format.
So no we need a dollar sign.
We don't have any dollar signs and we're going to take the value of and we're going to divide it by
100 and we're going to use a built in method in javascript to fix it which basically allows us to have
a fixed set of decimal points.
So we're always going to have at least decimal 0 0 to it and that's going to actually give us a money
type format that we can do.
And so now all we need to do is we need to wrap total into a money format and we also need to wrap the
subtotal into a money format.
So it's now refreshed the page and now we see that we've got more of a money format we can add in the
TVs and there's actually one other thing that's still missing and that we've got the details so the
details aren't coming in properly and that's because it's not in the details so the attribute value
was just.
So let me try that again.
So there we go.
So now we've got all the details we've got the quantities.
We've got the cost I.D. and subtotal.
And next we need to add in the remove and I'm going to simply remove these manually.
So you had to do that in the upcoming lesson and then that will clean up our current running list and
then we're able to add in additional items and clean up our array or we could create a function in order
to clean that up to remove any duplicates.
So we've got a couple options on the table there.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.